♪ Opening Song ♪
[NARRATOR] In my world,
there are only four senses...
Smell, sound, taste, and touch.
These are all I have.
These are all I need.
[YOUNG AMANE]
What's that?
What's this thing... in my eyes?
Finally...
A main road out
of these mountains.
[lute playing]
[lute continues]
♪ When I look at the ceiling,
it appears very weird. ♪
♪ With black hair all over, ♪
♪ like an unkempt
scraggly beard. ♪
♪ Every day it grows longer,
hanging down into space. ♪
♪ Until it gets so long
that it tickles my face. ♪
[GINKO]
Wait a minute.
Is she singing about mushi?
[lute continues]
Nice story.
How do you know it?
My father told it to me.
I've got plenty more if you want
to hear them, mushi master.
How did you know
I'm a mushi master?
Well, I...
I just had a feeling.
[AMANE]
Hey, don't look at me like that.
Come on, you.
It's starting to get dark.
We need a place to stay tonight.
[GINKO]
Huh?
[AMANE]
Innkeeper!
[MISTER]
Yes, Miss?
[AMANE] We'll need
two rooms for the night.
Right away, Miss!
[GINKO]
No thanks...
I wasn't planning
on staying the night--
[STAFF] Let me help you
with your luggage, sir.
[GINKO]
Like I said, I'm not--
[grunts]
Hey, let go!
I told you, I'm not staying!
[lute playing]
Well then...
What would you
like to hear about?
I do take requests.
[GINKO]
Your father.
Is he a mushi master, too?
Your stories seem to have
an air of truth about them.
[AMANE]
Why, yes.
Yes, he was.
[GINKO]
Is he retired?
[AMANE]
He passed away.
Ever since I was born,
I've had problems with my eyes.
You can't see anything at all?
No, I can.
Everything, in fact.
Wait... What do you mean?
The ganpuku.
"The eye of fortune."
I saw it.
You saw the ganpuku? Amazing!
So it's not a myth!
Where'd you see it?!
Look, I'll...
I'll tell you everything,
but under one condition.
It's a favor.
One you'll need to do
for me in return.
[AMANE]
When the time comes,
take my eyes and bury them
in the mountains.
[FATHER]
Amane!
[YOUNG AMANE]
Father!
I'm so glad you're back!
How did your work go?
[AMANE]
He was a mushi master,
so he was frequently gone for
days and weeks at a time,
leaving me at home alone.
It was so wonderful
when he'd return,
and I couldn't wait to listen
to all the fascinating stories
about his travels.
[FATHER] This time,
I've brought something back
that's truly amazing.
[FATHER] There's a mushi
called the ganpuku
that will supposedly
improve a person's eyesight
after they look at it.
Until now, I'd always
believed it to be a myth.
But one man saw it,
and I just managed to gain
possession of his eyeball.
His what?
[FATHER chuckles]
Don't worry.
It was taken out after he died.
I heard that this man's
vision improved
after seeing the ganpuku.
And that he saw clearly
for the rest of his life.
His eyeball.
It's been perfectly preserved
since he passed away.
I think this is the clue
to finding the ganpuku.
Amane...
I promise you.
I'll do whatever it takes.
You will have sight.
I promise. Just you wait.
[FATHER gasps]
Father?
Are you all--
Shut the door!
Father...
What's that?
[FATHER]
A mushi hiding in the eyeball!
It could be the ganpuku!
[AMANE] My father spent
the next several days
looking for the creature
in the mountains,
but luck was not on his side.
A month passed.
We'd given up hope
of finding it, but then...
[YOUNG AMANE] What's that?
What's this thing in my eyes?
Wait, could this be what it's
like to be able to see?
[YOUNG AMANE gasps]
[YOUNG AMANE]
There's something in my eyes.
Father?
That's you... isn't it?
Amane?
Amane!
[AMANE]
After years of blindness,
I was finally able to see
for the first time in my life.
Never in my wildest imagination
had I dared to dream
that I would be able to do so.
There were so many wonderful
things to see in the world,
and they never
ceased to amaze me.
It was magical.
[FATHER]
Dark blue. Light purple.
Soft pink. Burnt orange.
Look! Wild geese!
Wow! They fly in
such a pretty pattern!
[YOUNG AMANE]
You're Saki, and you're Fusa.
How are you able to see us?
I saw this shiny
flower-like thing.
[AMANE] My eyes could see
further than any of my friends.
This gave me a
definite advantage
when it came to game-playing.
[YOUNG AMANE]
There you are!
I see you two in the bushes!
[AMANE]
But then...
[YOUNG AMANE]
I found you!
[FUSA]
No fair!
You always find us too quickly.
[SAKI]
You can't be "it" anymore.
[AMANE]
As time passed by,
I started seeing places
that others couldn't see.
Like the hills
beyond the wall,
and the ridges
beyond those hills,
and even the sea
far beyond those ridges.
I was somehow able to see them,
even though I was in my room.
I was fascinated
with the scenery
and with all the people
whom I'd never seen before
going about their lives.
[AMANE] But soon after,
I started feeling dizzy,
and I could hardly walk.
The only way I could
stop these feelings,
to find any peace at all,
was to close my eyes.
So I spent most of my time with
my eyes closed tightly shut.
I managed to live like
that for quite a while,
but then I started
to see something else,
even though my eyes were closed.
Watch out!
Oh, never mind.
--[MAN yells]
--[splash]
[AMANE]
What happened?
You all right?
[MAN]
Yes.
There was a
sudden gust of wind.
[AMANE]
What did I see before?
I quickly realized that
when I closed my eyes,
I could see the future and the
past of everyone around me.
People, mostly my friends
and neighbors at first,
started coming to me and asking
that I tell them their futures.
Everything I saw became true,
so rumors began to spread.
People from neighboring villages
heard that I was clairvoyant,
and they traveled
from miles away
to hear what
their futures held.
Next year, in the summer...
You're going to die.
You'll drown in the river.
So please...
Please, don't go
near it for any reason.
[AMANE] But even though I warned
people about their futures,
the things I saw in my visions
didn't change at all.
And more and more,
the people who came to see me
only wanted to know if I
could tell them about thieves
and other criminals
and what they had done.
Although my eyes drew
lots of people to me,
they had the opposite effect
on my friends.
In the end, they all left me.
[AMANE]
I really can't blame them.
It must frighten them,
being around someone
who has the power
to see the future.
I hate this.
I can see the future,
but nothing changes.
[AMANE] I decided to
stop telling people
what was going
to happen to them.
But then...
Something changed.
[AMANE]
What?! How can...?
How can I see outside?
My eyes are closed!
I'm leaving.
I'll be back soon.
[FATHER]
Amane? What's wrong?
I'm having these visions.
Your future and the scenery
outside at the same time.
I'm so dizzy.
That doesn't sound good.
[AMANE]
Don't worry.
I'll get used to it.
I'll be fine.
You take it easy.
I won't be gone long.
[AMANE] Sadly, my father
wasn't able to keep his word.
He never came back.
When he didn't return,
I went to the mountains
every day to look for him.
I knew my eyes would
eventually find him.
And one day, they finally did.
I saw my father.
He was lying dead
at the bottom of a ravine.
I set out to pay
my final respects.
I knew I'd need some way
to support myself,
so I brought my lute along.
I sang songs about the stories
I'd heard from my father
and lived off the
tips people gave me.
When I eventually arrived
at his final resting place,
I no longer had any desire
to return to our village.
With my father now gone, I had
no reason to go back there.
Since then, I've just been
traveling from place to place
and playing my lute
on the streets for a living.
[AMANE]
As time went on,
I could see more and more
through my eyelids.
The past, the future...
everything.
Nothing could obstruct my view.
It was tough on my eyes
sometimes during the day
to stand the light,
but I managed.
But strangely enough,
there was still one thing
that I could never see.
And that was...
...my own future.
That's changed, however.
I am able to see my future now.
You passing through
this village...
The tip you gave me...
The conversation we're
having in this room.
Well, I...
I foresaw all of this.
Really? Is that the
reason you asked me
to take your eyes?
Bury them in the mountains
when the time comes?
I normally don't ask
for help from anyone.
But in this case,
I have no choice.
It's funny.
My eyes once
brought me so much joy.
That's how I've lived with them.
But now, after all
of the visions,
I've just grown to hate them.
I guess I should feel lucky.
I've forseen that
this pair of eyes
won't belong to me
for much longer.
It'll be just like
the ganpuku I saw.
I'll lose my eyes,
but it'll stay inside them.
It'll go underground,
and then wait for a new pair of
eyes to come along to claim.
I don't want anyone else
to have to go through
the same misery that I have.
That's why I want you to bury
my eyes deep in the mountains.
You said that you
foresaw all this?
I don't get it.
Why didn't you ask
if they could be healed?
For all we know,
there might be a cure.
I just told you.
The things that I see
can't be changed.
The things that my eyes see...
They're already
destined to happen.
There's nothing you, or I, or
anyone can do to change them.
[GINKO]
Hey. Listen.
I still can't swallow everything
you've told me tonight,
but I can't just
sit around here.
Let me try to help, at least.
You can write your
letter if you want,
but your friend has no answers.
Is that so?
Why are you so
willing to help me, Ginko?
Is it because you
lost your left eye?
[GINKO] You can see
the past, can't you?
Well, In your case...
No, I can't. Your childhood
is all black to me.
[GINKO] You want to know
what my earliest memory is?
I was ten.
I was walking alone
somewhere in the dark.
I couldn't see anything at all.
I tried to grope my way
through that darkness,
but it seemed endless, hopeless.
Until the moon came out.
It was snow-white,
almost unreal-looking,
and was slowly setting,
just as another moon
started to rise.
I walked for a long time.
Eventually, I came to a place
where I could see
the sun rising.
I used to appreciate
it back then.
The sunlight and its warmth.
What about you?
Aren't you scared of
losing light forever?
Won't you miss it?
[AMANE]
Of course I will.
But... a world with
only light is just as scary.
I can see everything,
like I do right now,
but I can do nothing
to change things.
Or I can see nothing,
and live free
from these visions.
Which one do you think
would make me happier?
Honestly, I'd
prefer to see nothing.
Living in the darkness
and still being able
to remember the light...
Well... I don't think
that's a bad thing at all.
[AMANE gasps]
[AMANE whimpers]
[GINKO]
What's wrong?!
I'm okay.
I just... I saw it again.
A vision? What was it? Tell me.
The very last thing my
eyeballs see before they die.
[GINKO]
Her eyes...
They weren't always able
to see through her eyelids.
She could only see
other people's futures.
But now, she can see
through her eyelids,
and she's able to see
her own future. Interesting.
I wonder...
Does that mean she's become
another person to her eyeballs?
A mushi that lives in someone's
eyes after they look at it...
It then changes the eyeballs
into something else
so that they can live on
after the person dies.
Once the eyes are
completely taken over,
the mushi leaves.
If that's the case, the time
for it to leave must be close.
And still no reply
from my friend.
[GINKO] Changing things
destined to happen...
Is it even possible?
[AMANE]
Wait, why...
Why can't I see
behind the ceiling?
What happened?
[AMANE]
I can see. Normally.
Huh? My...
My eyeballs! They're
moving by themselves!
[AMANE gasps]
[GINKO gasps]
[AMANE whimpering]
Hold on!
I'll give you a painkiller.
[AMANE crying]
[AMANE] Isn't it strange?
I don't have eyeballs anymore,
but somehow tears still flow.
[GINKO]
A vision? What was it? Tell me.
[AMANE]
The very last thing
my eyeballs see before they die.
After leaving my body,
they were buried in the ground
high in the mountains.
After a while, they revealed
themselves from the ground,
and a fox walked towards them.
The fox was captivated,
and two beautiful flowers
suddenly reflected in its eyes.
They were slowly absorbed
until they faded away.
Then everything went dark.
And that... is the
last thing I ever see.
[AMANE]
I know it's too late,
but did you ever receive
a reply from your friend?
[GINKO] Will you go back
to your village?
One day... Maybe.
Right now I'm not sure.
Who knows what the future holds?
I don't know, for a change,
and I'm thankful.
Thanks for all your help.
If you ever happen to see me,
please say hello.
Who knows?
Maybe I'll have a new song
to sing by then.
[NARRATOR] Next: "The Sound
Of Footsteps On The Grass."